docs: Add first part of bringing dlc to lightning blog post (#44)
get10101/10101.github.io: blog/2023-06-12-bringing-dlc-to-lightning-part-1.md

---
slug: dlc-to-lightning-part-1
title: Bringing DLC to Lightning Part 1
authors: [richard]
tags: [DLC, lightning, knowledge-base]
---

At 10101, our mission is to provide self-custodial trading solutions for Bitcoin traders, and we have been dedicated to this goal for a significant period of time.
Our initial solution, known as ItchySats, involved implementing Layer 2 Discreet Log Contracts (DLCs) directly on Layer 1. 

> However, we quickly realized that on-chain transactions were not efficient enough in terms of speed and cost to deliver the trading experience we envisioned.

Reviewer: This is not 100% correct, we did build our own layer-2 protocol https://github.com/comit-network/maia/.

Author: Whats not correct? I am saying that our initial solution implemented a Layer 2.

```
... implementing Layer 2 Discreet Log Contracts (DLCs) directly on Layer 1.
```

Author: Reworded the whole paragraph.

![](/2023-06-12-bringing-dlc-to-lightning-part-1/bitcoin_struck_by_lightning.png)

> As a result, we began exploring the Lightning Network as a means to achieve self-custodial trading at lightning-fast speeds. During our evaluation, we identified two potential approaches for integrating DLCs with the Lightning Network:

Author: Fair, I guess I am not mentioning ItchySats then.

> As a result, we began exploring the Lightning Network as a means to achieve self-custodial trading at lightning-fast speeds. During our evaluation, we identified two potential approaches for integrating DLCs with the Lightning Network:

Author: Reworded the whole paragraph.

1. **Custom DLC Output**: This involves incorporating a custom DLC output into the Lightning commitment transaction.

> 1. **Virtual Channels**: By linking a DLC channel alongside the Lightning channel through a parent commitment transaction, virtual channels can be created.

Author: I reworded the whole paragraph.

- **Part 1**: A recap on Lightning and DLCs.
- **Part 2**: Exploring the implementation of Custom DLC Output.
- **Part 3**: Discussing the integration of Virtual Channels.

*Teaser*: At 10101, we ultimately opted to develop virtual channels as our solution.

## A recap on Lightning

In order to understand the process of setting up a Discreet Log Contract (DLC) within a Lightning channel, it is essential to have a basic understanding of the transaction structure associated with regular Lightning channels. Let us briefly review this structure, focusing solely on the aspects relevant to our discussion and omitting details like routing, liquidity, etc.

When two Lightning nodes establish a channel, they collaboratively construct and sign two types of transactions: the funding transaction and the commitment transactions.

1. **Funding Transaction:** utilizes a number of Unspent Transaction Outputs (UTXOs). These funds are locked within a 2-of-2 output, which necessitates the signatures of both parties to be spent. This output is known as the funding output and serves as a repository for the channel's funds.

> 1. **Commitment transaction:** references the funding output as its input and incorporates two outputs, each reflecting the balance held by the respective parties. It is important to note that these balances are subject to change throughout the channel's lifespan, thus requiring the commitment transaction to be updatable to accurately reflect these modifications. To achieve this, the commitment transaction is designed to be revocable. In practical terms, each party maintains a distinct version of the commitment transaction, with the output paying to themselves secured by a script that can be unlocked either by their own signature after a specific period or by their counterpart possessing a secret. When the parties reach an agreement to adjust the channel balance (e.g., one party intends to transfer a certain amount of sats to the other), they generate and exchange signatures for the updated commitment transactions while simultaneously revealing the secrets used in the previous versions. In the event of a party attempting to cheat the other by broadcasting an outdated commitment transaction, the opposing party has a window of time to respond and employ the revealed secret to claim all the channel's funds.

Reviewer 2: Maybe so. You can ignore this.

> 1. **Commitment transaction:** references the funding output as its input and incorporates two outputs, each reflecting the balance held by the respective parties. It is important to note that these balances are subject to change throughout the channel's lifespan, thus requiring the commitment transaction to be updatable to accurately reflect these modifications. To achieve this, the commitment transaction is designed to be revocable. In practical terms, each party maintains a distinct version of the commitment transaction, with the output paying to themselves secured by a script that can be unlocked either by their own signature after a specific period or by their counterpart possessing a secret. When the parties reach an agreement to adjust the channel balance (e.g., one party intends to transfer a certain amount of sats to the other), they generate and exchange signatures for the updated commitment transactions while simultaneously revealing the secrets used in the previous versions. In the event of a party attempting to cheat the other by broadcasting an outdated commitment transaction, the opposing party has a window of time to respond and employ the revealed secret to claim all the channel's funds.

Author: I additionally linked another blog post to read up on more details on how Lightning works.

In an adaptor signature scheme, the signer generates a partial signature that is dependent on some secret value or nonce. This partial signature alone is not valid and cannot be verified by the verifier. The signer then provides this partial signature to the verifier, who completes the signature by adding their own contribution to it. The resulting adapted signature is a valid signature on the message. However, the verifier does not gain any knowledge of the signer's secret value or nonce during this process.

In the context of DLCs, adaptor signatures allow for the creation of smart contracts where the settlement of funds is contingent on an outcome determined by an external oracle. The parties can collaboratively construct a signature on the outcome without revealing their private keys to each other. This ensures security and privacy while enabling the execution of self-enforcing contracts.

![](/2023-06-12-bringing-dlc-to-lightning-part-1/adaptor_signature.png)

> Overall, adaptor signatures provide a powerful tool for secure and collaborative signature generation, enabling the creation of advanced cryptographic protocols with enhanced privacy and flexibility. The following figure illustrates the different operations involved in encrypting, verifying, and decrypting adaptor signatures, as well as recovering an encryption secret.

Author: I think me neither 😅, however, my understanding definitely improved writing this blog post. :) I have rewritten the entire chapter, please have a look.

I kind of feel the content is probably not worth a dedicated chapter and could be combined with the DLC recap, but I didn't want to change that now. wdyt?

## Recap on DLCs

> Discreet Log Contracts (DLCs) are a type of smart contract protocol that operates on the Bitcoin blockchain, allowing for the execution and settlement of contracts based on external events.

Reviewer 2: Maybe specify that the events are external to the blockchain.

While resembling Lightning channels at first glance, DLCs differ in their transaction structure. Instead of utilizing commitment transactions to spend from the funding output, DLCs employ Contract Execution Transactions (CETs), with each CET corresponding to a potential contract payout outcome.

> To construct these CETs, the involved parties encrypt their signatures using adaptor signatures, incorporating the pre-image of the signature that the oracle would generate for the specific event outcome. The parties exchange and verify these encrypted signatures.

Reviewer 2: This sounds wrong.

I would say that since the CETs spend from the shared DLC output, they require a signature from each party to be minable. Each party can always provide their own, but they need the counterparty's too. During the DLC setup, for each CET, they also get an adaptor signature corresponding to the other party's signing key, encrypted under the [anticipated signature (or signature point)](https://github.com/coblox/academy/blob/master/2021-05-19_dlcs/src/lib.rs#L274-L288) that corresponds to a particular potential event outcome

> To construct these CETs, the involved parties encrypt their signatures using adaptor signatures, incorporating the pre-image of the signature that the oracle would generate for the specific event outcome. The parties exchange and verify these encrypted signatures.

Author: I've rewritten the whole paragraph, please have a look again. Not sure if I got it 100% right :)

Once the oracle verifies and confirms the event outcome, either party can decrypt a single signature from their counterpart.
This decrypted signature enables the closure of the contract by broadcasting the corresponding CET.

It is worth noting that adaptor signatures facilitate a scenario in which both parties possess an identical set of CETs. The following diagram illustrates the transaction structure of a binary DLC setup.

![](/2023-06-12-bringing-dlc-to-lightning-part-1/binary_dlc.png)

> *Note, in case of a numerical outcome, a CET would have to be created for every possible outcome.*

Reviewer 2: Or range of outcomes.

---
slug: dlc-to-lightning-part-1

> title: Bringing DLC to Lightning Part 1

Reviewer 2: Sounds a bit more natural to me.

```suggestion
title: Bringing DLCs to Lightning Part 1
```

authors: [richard]
tags: [DLC, lightning, knowledge-base]
---

> At 10101 we are extending the Lightning network to support DLCs, allowing traders not only to pay and receive payments, but also to trade right from their channels.

Reviewer 2: Maybe? It sounds a bit more ambitious.

```suggestion
At 10101 we are extending the Lightning network to support DLCs, allowing Bitcoiners not only to pay and receive payments, but also to trade right from their channels.
```

Also perhaps we could say that we are "working on extending", so that it doesn't sound like we are the only ones doing it. Or something like that.

## A recap on Adaptor Signatures

An adaptor signature is a signature that has been encrypted with a secret, and for which we can prove that after decryption (or with knowledge of the secret) we obtained a valid signature for a given message.

For a DLC we use the oracles signature as secret to encrypt the counterparties signatures to unlock a certain CET. 

TODO: WRITE ABOUT THAT BOTH PARTY GENERATES THE ADOPTER SIGNATURES (ENCRYPT THEIR OWN SIGNATURES TO UNLOCK A CET) OVER ANY POSSIBLE OUTCOME OF M (EVENT OUTCOME)

*If you want to read up in more detail about Adaptor Signatures have a look at this [blog post](https://medium.com/crypto-garage/optimizing-numeric-outcome-dlc-creation-6d6091ac0e47#96e9)*

## A recap on DLCs

Discreet Log Contracts (DLCs) are a type of smart contract protocol that operates on the Bitcoin blockchain, allowing for the execution and settlement of contracts based on events external to the blockchain.

During the setup of a DLC both parties lock up funds in a DLC output.

> This output can only be spent with a signature of both parties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This output can only be spent with signatures from both parties.
```
